# Developer's Guide

This page was last updated: *{{ git_revision_date_localized }}*

## Dev Tools

The following are necessary and useful for developing the DAQ's firmware.

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

- :octicons-code-16: __[Code Editors]__ – Installing CubeIDE and/or VSCode.
- :material-usb-port: __[View Serial Output]__ – Read logs transmitted from the device.

</div>

  [Code Editors]: code-editors.md
  [View Serial Output]: view-serial-output.md


The following pages are for those curious about using VSCode as a development environment, instead of STM32 Cube IDE. It is very much possible and doable. The only caveat of using VSCode is that the user must re-import the CubeIDE project every time a CubeMX setting is changed. Importing is done through the official STM32 extension.

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

- :fontawesome-solid-hammer: __[Build, Flash, and Debug]__ – Run the firmware on the microcontroller development board.
- :material-memory: __[View Threads, Queues, and Memory]__ – Extra debugging tools to examine data within concurrency.

</div>
  [Build, Flash, and Debug]: build-flash-debug.md
  [View Threads, Queues, and Memory]: view-threads-queues-memory.md


!!! note
    An alternative is to compile Makefiles. This can be generated by the CubeMX *stand-alone app*. That is, Makefile generation is not offered through the CubeMX that is made available on CubeIDE. So, no project settings are saved — which is a huge drawback for our use-case while project requirements may be ill-defined and continue to change.


## Automation and DevOps Tools

The following tools enable us to leverage DevOps to introduce automation for efficiently sustaining a long-term project.

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

- :material-test-tube: __[Unit Testing]__ – Test Driven Development (TDD) and Countinuous Integration (CI).
- :material-code-equal: __[Source Code Docs]__ – Writing API docs and Continuous Delivery (CD).

</div>

  [Unit Testing]: unit-testing.md
  [Source Code Docs]: source-code-docs.md


## Standardized Practices

Records of team-agreed standards to maintain consistency within our development. These are by no means a mandate, and may be modified overtime.

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

- :octicons-git-branch-16: __[Contributing and Version Control]__ – Maintaining traceability between branches and issues.
- :material-format-line-style: __[Style Guide]__ – Consistent code formatting patterns.

</div>

  [Contributing and Version Control]: contributing-version-control.md
  [Style Guide]: style-guide.md

## Project Configurations

<div class="grid cards" markdown>

- :simple-opensourcehardware: __[Code Generation Configs]__ – Modifying CubeIDE's organization of the HAL library. 
- :material-text: __[Enabling printf( )]__ – Overriding C's `printf()` to output through the UART peripheral.
- :material-fire: __[Enabling C++]__ – Setting up the environment to compile our codebase.

</div>

  [Code Generation Configs]: code-generator-configs.md
  [Enabling printf( )]: enabling-printf.md
  [Enabling C++]: enabling-cpp.md